For the fourth and final element of our
Kung Fu, saga, collections and iterators.
And so just before I get started in this,
I just want to make sure that
we understand when we talk
about iterators is that we
have more than one thing and
we need to perform some action
on that collection of things.
Now in JavaScript, and I would say
almost every other language that
I've ever worked with,
you have kind of this classic for loop.
And I hate this particular
programming mechanism.
The reason being is you are creating
a mechanism that is iterating over
an object that has no reference or
knowledge to the object
that it is iterating over.
In other words is you're kind of
measuring this object if you will.
So it's like, okay, I'm gonna start
at zero and I'm gonna go to clients.
How many do you have?
Okay.
10.
I'm gonna keep going over and
it each iteration,
I'm gonna have to ask the clients or right
like, hey, I'm in position number two,
what client are you and you're constantly
having to reference via array notation.
The particular element that you're
at in that particular iteration.
And to me, it seems incredibly clunky
that you're iterating over something and
yet you have no knowledge of
the thing that you're iterating
over versus let me show you
a higher order function.
In JavaScript for each.
So this is an example of
a higher order function,
that you have a client's collection.
And instead of delegating
the iteration of that collection to
something else you're allowing the array
to handle that in iterate over itself,
and not only is it able to
iterate over itself, but
it's able to keep track of
whatever item it's on because
it knows what it is,
because It is controlling itself.
So I look at this and
I can think of only one reason I've only
ever seen one reason in,
I don't know, the six or
seven years that have elapsed or
transpired since I started moving to ES6.
And it's if you need to do In
iteration where you need to loop for
a specific length, so like I need to
have 100 iterations of something and
then I need to fill or
need to push items into an array and
it's a very specific number
that you need to iterate.
You cannot use hydro higher
order functions for that.
But for
everything else higher order functions.
So my three favourite ones outside of for
each is filter, map and reduce.
And so we've kind of hinted at
these through the workshop but
all the filter does is say, I wanna
take this array, I wanna loop over and
I wanna return everything
that matches this condition.
A map allows you to loop
over a collection and
perform some kind of logical
operation on that collection.
Reduce what this does Is it
takes the current state or
the accumulated state and
then the current value and
it is simply, or it's simply
performs a logical operation or
performs a specific logical
operation until you get to the end.
And then it would turn into a final
reduced value for that operation.
So what you're doing is you're
taking all these elements and
you're reducing them into a single value.
Ironically, this is very close to
how the reducer works in Redux.